---
layout: post
title:  "Augmented Reality Laser Tag System"
date:   2022-02-23 19:35:45 -0400
categories: jekyll update
image: "/assets/images/cg4002_5.jpg"
summary: "Developed a laser gun, target and a motion sensing handband as part of a large-scale AR physical game."
---
<iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1791XbGgbsE5xFwCqnMUGLiSBpF7O42-Z/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
# Introduction

The `Computer Engineering Capstone Project` requires the creation of an AR game system, where the software visualisation must synchronise with real-time sensor events to play out a shooter game.

Out of the 5 possible components, I contributed towards the `Hardware component` heavily. I also assisted the other members in their components to ensure smooth development in the project.

# Contributions
1. Designed the prototype, circuit layout andfinal design of the laser guns, motion sensing handbands and laser targets. 
* The battery solution for each device is designed based on the nature of use; lithium ion batteries are used together with buck converters to provide a reliable power supply based on the energy consumption of the devices.
* The `laser gun` incorporates a set of Lithium Ion battery pack, laser diode and IR emitting diode to ensure long-range detection and ease of aim.
* The `motion-sensing handbands` incorporates the accelerometer on the `MPU6050` to generate accelerometer readings. The readings are then relayed to the neural network model to predict the arm movement.
* The `laser target` incorporates an IR receiving diode to receive IR emissions. The firmware of the device incorporates a state machine to handle different events based on the encoded message of the gun.
1. Assisted my teammates in other tasks, including:
* Created a method to record accelerometer readings based on a button hold.
* Assisted in setting up a `SSH tunnel` over the NUS sunfire server through the private network to bypass the firewall.
* Assisted in setting up the `MQTT broker` to work with the Unity application.

# Reflections
1. Be open to ideas by other developers; you would never know until you try!
1. Do not settle for substandard products; consider all the needs and requirements of the product and what solution can reliably tackle them all!
1. Upon a mind-expanding experience working with my fellow colleagues, I was inspired to pick up Neovim for software development work :^)






